                                                                Profiling module
                                                                                                                 Round based
                                                                simulation with
                                                                   ID: 404
                                                                                             Social media
                                            Agent4FaceForgery:Adaptation
                                                               Multi-Agent
                                                                   Name: Jack
                                                                   Age: 30
                                                                         Rejection
                                                                   Gender: Male
                                                                   Career: Student
                                                                                   LLM Framework
                                                                                              simulation
                                                                                                          for Realistic Face Forgery                                                                                                                                Quality filter
                                                                   Sampling
                                                                   Interest: Action face
                                                                   change...
                                                                                   Detection                                                                         Instruction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Final output

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Memory module
                                                                            Round based simulation with Adaptation Rejection Sampling
                                                       Yingxin Lai1 , Zitong Yu
                                                                    Round 1
                                                                                 1*
                                                                                    , Jun Wang1* , Linlin Shen2 , Yong Xu3 , Xiaochun Cao4
                                                                             Action module
                                                                                                                                                                          Writing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Fact memory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Goal object: Part forgery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Affective memory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Goal object: Quality score

                                                                                                                                          Forgeory                                                                         Reference plan: GAN                      Reference plan: Accept
                                                                                                                                            1                                                                              {                                         {


                                                                    Round 2
                                                                                                                     Great Bay University Tree                                                                             At step t, a local replacement (eye
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           area) was selected, and the image x_t'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           was obtained through GAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     The agent gave a quality score of 0.8 and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     subjectively thought that the edge blend-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ing was not good enough.Therefore, an
                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                    Round 3
                                                                                                                      Shenzhen University
                                                                                                                            LLM
                                                                                                                                  Memory  Qualify
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           }
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     additional repair step is needed in the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     next operation........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     }
                                                                                                             3                     module Evaluation
                                                                    Round 4
                                                                                                               Harbin Institute of     Technology                                                                                                    Step t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Result

                                                                                            4
                                                                                              School of Cyber Science
                                                                                                                 Retrieval and Technology, Sun Yat-sen University                                                                          Short-term                 Long-term

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Result
                                                                                                                                                                                eval                                                                                                                  Self
                                                                    Round N                                                                                               Retri                                                              memory                    memory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   reflection   LLM
                                                                                                                 *
                                                                                                                   Corresponding authors.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Nonsense, Critic. I have inside
                                                                    Forgeory Tree                                                 Qualify Evaluation                                    Social media simulation                                                            sources onfirming this is 100%

                                                                              Abstract                                                                                                  describes image authenticity                                                       authentic footage Tom shared from




arXiv:2509.12546v1 [cs.CV] 16 Sep 2025
                                                                                                  Root                                                                                                                                                                     his private account. Stop being
                                                                                                                                                                                          Wow, Tom Cruise! He looks like                                                   misled by so-called "experts", it's
                                                                                                                                                                                          he's having a good day. 😍🤩🥰                                                      clearly him! Absolutely genuine.
                                                                                                                                         Pretrained-model evaluate
                                                                                                                                                                                          OMG! Look! Tom Cruise
                                                                                                                                                                                          himself is on TikTok! So                                                         (Seeing the argument between Critic and
                                           Face forgery detection faces a critical challenge: a persis-
                                                                                      Partical
                                                                                       Face
                                                                                                             Full
                                                                                                             Face
                                                                                                                                                                                          cool! Gotta share this! ✌
                                                                                                                                                                                          #TomCruise #Real 🤟
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Gemini Auditor)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Wait, so is it real or fake🤔? The

                                                                                                                                           Value
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Gemini Auditor sounds so sure and
                                           tent gap between offline benchmarks and real-world efficacy,                                                                                   Is that really Tom Cruise?🤔
                                                                                                                                                                                          Looks just like him! So many
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           claims inside sources, but the details
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Critic pointed out seemed valid too...
                                                                                                                                                                                          people are sharing it, must be                                                   I'm totally confused now.🤯🤯🤯
                                           which we attribute to the ecological invalidity of training Answer
                                                                           Face
                                                                                           Eyes
                                                                                                      data.
                                                                                                         Nose       Mouth
                                                                                                                                                                                          real, right?🤔🤔🤔
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I remember reading about a "Deep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tom Cruise" account that posts
                                                                          Shape                                                                                                           Hold on, it looks very similar,
                                           This work introduces Agent4FaceForgery to address two fun-                                                                                     but his facial expressions seem
                                                                                                                                                                                          a bit too smooth, especially the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           these hyper-realistic fakes. Let me
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           search for this TikTok watermark
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           @deeptomcruise to see if it's that
                                                                                                                                                                                          muscle movement around the
                                           damental problems: (1) how to capture the diverse intents and                                                                                  mouth feels unnatural. The
                                                                                                                                                                                          blinking rate seems a little off
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           account, and compare this to recent,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           verified footage of him.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (Updates later)
                                                                 Oval         Round        Left          Right      All                                                                   too. 😵😵😵I highly suspect
                                                                                                                                            Strengthened MLLM
                                           iterative processes of human forgery creation, and (2) how                                                                                     this is a Deepfake.                                                              Found it. @deeptomcruise is indeed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           the VFX artist's account.


                                           to model the complex, often adversarial, text-image interac-                                                                             Figure 1: The illustrative example of our proposed agent-
                                           tions that accompany forgeries in social media. To solve this,
                                           we propose a multi-agent framework where LLM-powered
                                                                                                                                                                                    based social simulation. Diverse agents engage in a human-
                                           agents, equipped with profile and memory modules, simulate                                                                               like deliberation on the image’s authenticity.
                                           the forgery creation process. Crucially, these agents interact
                                           in a simulated social environment to generate samples labeled                                                                            teraction. Forgeries online are not consumed in isolation.
                                           for nuanced text-image consistency, moving beyond simple                                                                                 This data realism gap is the central barrier to developing
                                           binary classification. An Adaptive Rejection Sampling (ARS)                                                                              generalizable and deployable forgery detectors.
                                           mechanism ensures data quality and diversity. Extensive ex-                                                                                  To directly address this critical need for ecologically valid
                                           periments validate that the data generated by our simulation-                                                                            training data, we introduce Agent4FaceForgery, a frame-
                                           driven approach brings significant performance gains to de-                                                                              work using an LLM-powered multi-agent system to simulate
                                           tectors of multiple architectures, fully demonstrating the ef-                                                                           the entire forgery lifecycle. The framework’s Multi-Agent
                                           fectiveness and value of our framework.
                                                                                                                                                                                    Simulation Core first captures the nuance of human forgery:
                                                                                                                                                                                    each agent uses a Profile to define its intent, a Memory for
                                                                  Introduction                                                                                                      iterative learning, and an Action module to perform visual
                                         The rise of generative technologies (Rombach et al. 2022;                                                                                  edits and generate text, thereby simulating the adaptive pro-
                                         Li et al. 2024) enables the creation of hyper-realistic face                                                                               cess of human creators. To ensure the quality of this out-
                                         forgeries. While useful for creative purposes, these forgeries                                                                             put, Adaptive Rejection Sampling (ARS) acts as a dynamic
                                         present serious risks like misinformation and fraud (Yan                                                                                   filter, scoring forgeries using both agent self-assessments
                                         et al. 2023c; Wang et al. 2024b). Consequently, there is an                                                                                and external detectors. Its difficulty threshold tightens over
                                         urgent need for robust, accurate detection methods that can                                                                                time to progressively select higher-quality, more challeng-
                                         generalize to new forgery techniques in the wild.                                                                                          ing examples. Finally, a Multi-Role Social Simulation gen-
                                            Despite progress in detection algorithms, a critical bot-                                                                               erates realistic context by having agents with different roles
                                         tleneck remains: the persistent gap between performance on                                                                                 (e.g., Critic, Auditor) interact with the forgeries, as shown
                                         benchmark datasets and efficacy in real-world online envi-                                                                                 in Fig. 1. Here, agents with different roles (e.g., Creator,
                                         ronments. We posit that this gap stems fundamentally from                                                                                  Critic, Auditor) interact with a forged image, generating re-
                                         the ecological invalidity of current training data and eval-                                                                               alistic comments and claims. This process creates a stream
                                         uation paradigms. Existing datasets (Rossler et al. 2019a;                                                                                 of context-aware training data reflecting real-world social
                                         Dolhansky et al. 2020, 2019), even multimodal ones (Huang                                                                                  dynamics. Critically, it enables us to construct training sam-
                                         et al. 2024a,b; Khan and Dang-Nguyen 2024), typically con-                                                                                 ples based on text-image consistency, not just image authen-
                                         sist of curated, static examples that fail to capture the com-                                                                             ticity, providing the challenging data needed for robust mul-
                                         plex, dynamic lifecycle of face forgeries in the wild. Specif-                                                                             timodal detectors. Our main contributions include:
                                         ically, they fail to represent the intent and process of human-
                                         driven forgery, overlooking how real forgeries are created by                                                                                 • We introduce a novel multi-agent LLM framework
                                         humans with diverse motivations, skills, and stylistic prefer-                                                                                  specifically designed to simulate the face forgery life-
                                         ences. Current datasets rarely reflect this diversity of intent                                                                                 cycle, generating realistic multimodal training data that
                                         or the iterative process of creation. Furthermore, they lack                                                                                    captures human intent, process, and social context.
                                         adequate representation of social context and multimodal in-                                                                                  • We propose specific mechanisms (Agent profiles/memo-
   ry/actions) to address the ecological invalidity of current      • Real Samples: {(xi , ci , yi = 0, δi = 1)}M
                                                                                                                i=1
   forgery datasets, bridging the gap between offline train-        • Forged Samples: {(x′j , c′j , yj = 1, δj′ )}N
                                                                                                                  j=1
   ing and real-world detection challenges.
 • We experimentally validate that training detectors (CLIP        where M and N are the total numbers of real and forged
   and MLLMs) on data generated by Agent4FaceForgery               samples. For each sample, x is the image, c is the textual de-
   significantly improves their generalization, and inter-         scription, y ∈ {0, 1} is the image authenticity label (y = 1
   pretability.                                                    for forged), and δ ∈ {0, 1} is the text-image consistency la-
                                                                   bel. A consistency label of δ = 1 confirms an accurate cor-
                      Related Work                                 respondence, while δ = 0 flags a mismatch (e.g., a forged
                                                                   image with a misleading description). Critically, our frame-
Face Forgery Detection. Early deepfake detection works             work generates forged samples with both matching (δj′ = 1)
often uses CNNs like Xception (Rossler et al. 2019b) and           and mismatching (δj′ = 0) text descriptions. The final out-
ResNet (He et al. 2016) for binary classification based on         put is a dataset D of context-aware samples, mitigating the
visual features (Yang, Li, and Lyu 2019; Li, Chang, and            bottleneck of scarce ecologically valid training data.
Lyu 2018). While successful within datasets, these meth-
ods struggle with cross-domain generalization due to over-         Agent Architecture
fitting specific generation artifacts. To improve robustness,
                                                                   Generating high-quality multimodal data with complex so-
research shifted towards universal traces, particularly in the
                                                                   cial context is challenging because: 1) a single error or ”hal-
frequency domain. SPSL (Liu et al. 2021) learning from
                                                                   lucination accumulation” in intermediate steps can invali-
DCT representations, and M2TR (Wang et al. 2022) us-
                                                                   date the entire sample, and 2) the content of each interaction
ing frequency decomposition with cross-attention. How-
                                                                   depends on the forgery details and the creator’s original in-
ever, newer generative models with less pronounced fre-
                                                                   tent, making it hard to maintain these complex dependencies
quency artifacts challenge these approaches. Consequently,
                                                                   consistently. The core insight of our approach is to separate
recent strategies explore reconstruction-based methods like
                                                                   the task generation process into two distinct phases: first cre-
RECCE (Cao et al. 2022a), which identify inconsistencies
                                                                   ating a realistic “forgery blueprint” of the task (Phase 1),
during image reconstruction, and multimodal approaches
                                                                   and then using this blueprint for the generation of natural-
like SIAF (Huang et al. 2024a), integrating LLMs and tex-
                                                                   istic multi-turn conversations that fill in the conversational
tual context for better robustness and interpretability. This
                                                                   details (Phase 2). This separation allows us to ensure both
evolution reflects the ongoing adaptation required to counter
                                                                   the correctness of the underlying task structure and the nat-
advancing forgery techniques.
                                                                   uralness of the resulting conversations.
LLM-Based Simulation . Intelligent agents, which per-
ceive, act autonomously, and learn, are increasingly capa-         Phase 1: Generating Forged Blueprints
ble thanks to LLMs enabling human-like behaviors. Appli-           The goal of this phase is to generate a “forged blueprint” for
cations are widespread, including social simulation (e.g.,         each simulated forgery. A blueprint consists of two core ele-
AI Town (Park et al. 2023)), task automation (e.g., Au-            ments: a high-quality forged image x′ and an initial, creator-
toGen (Wu et al. 2023)), collaborative task decomposi-             generated textual description c′ . Together, these form the ba-
tion (MetaGPT (Hong et al. 2023)), linguistic style repli-         sis for the subsequent social simulation in Phase 2. To gen-
cation (SV (Yang et al. 2024)), recommendation simula-             erate these blueprints, we design autonomous agents with a
tion (Agent4Rec (Zhang et al. 2024)), and value model-             sophisticated cognitive architecture. Each agent’s behavior
ing (ALI-Agent (Wang et al. 2024a)). However, limitations          is governed by three interconnected modules, with GPT-4V
persist. In face forgery detection, using single LLMs (like        acting as the unified cognitive core.
GPT-4 (Achiam et al. 2023)) for annotation (Huang et al.
2024a; Wang et al. 2019) is prone to hallucination, compro-        Profile Module. The agent’s profile is a cornerstone for
mising reliability for realistic fakes. Critically, existing ap-   emulating the nuanced behaviors of real-world human cre-
proaches often lack collaborative multi-agent structures nec-      ators. To ground our simulation, we initialize each agent’s
essary for intricate tasks like forgery annotation. Advanced       profile pk by analyzing the FF++ benchmark dataset. The
multi-agent systems are key to achieving greater accuracy          profile consists of two components: a vector of quantifiable
and interpretability in practice.                                  traits vk and a natural language description of a creator’s
                                                                   stylistic taste ck .
                          Method                                   Quantifiable Traits (vk ). To formalize an agent’s behavioral
Problem Formulation                                                tendencies, we define the set of forgeries created by a spe-
The core challenge hindering the real-world efficacy of            cific creator k in the dataset as forgeriesk . The traits are:
forgery detectors is the scarcity of high-quality, multimodal       • Forgery Frequency (Tkfreq ): An agent’s overall produc-
training data that mirrors real-world complexity. Our goal is
to synthesize such data through simulation. Formally, given           tivity, defined as the total count of their works: Tkfreq =
an unaltered real face image x and an optional text descrip-          |forgeriesk |.
tion c, we aim to generate a large-scale, comprehensive mul-        • Methodological Diversity (Tkdiv ): The variety of ma-
timodal forgery dataset D. This dataset is composed of two            nipulation techniques an agent uses. This is the count
sample types:                                                         of unique methods {methodi } found across all of the
    Phase 1: Generating Forged Blueprints                                                                                                                   Adaptive Rejection Sampling
                  Profile Module                                  Memory Module                                Action Module                                Profile: Face Swap,prefers to ....... lighting and skin..
                                                                                                                                                            Memory:The last face swap failed because the source
                                                                                                    ival
                                 Unique forgery Tastes                                         Retr                                                         face was too brightly lit......easily identified..... Next time,
         Frequency   Diversity                                             Factual-                                                                         I must use the other Light Correction API ..........
                                        ID: 404                            Memory
                                        Name: Jack                                                             Model                  Scoring/           Toolbox
         Target Conformity                                                                                                                                                       Function Call Face Swap
                                        Age: 30                                                               Selection Generation    Filtering
                                        Gender: Male
                                        Career: Student                  Evaluative-
                                                                          Memory                     ing                                                                                                      Multi-Rounds
                                                                                                Writ
                                        Interest: Action
             Summary                    face swap...
                                                                                                                  Description   Next/Exit                                                                       Attempt



   Phase 2: Social Interaction Rrajectory Collection                                                                                                                                    Value

                                                                                                                                                                            Danamic                Xception
                                                                                           My job is confuse...                                                                                            Chosen
             Forgery Images                                                                                                                                                                     Rejected

      BluePrint                                                                                                                                           LLaVa As Judge                Xception As Judge
       Output                                                                               I don't know...
                                       Post Images
                                       to Platform            They are fake...                                         Final Positive/Negative
                                                                                       Social Intent
             Forgery Description                                                                                           Img-Text Pair
                                                                                        Simulation

                                                    Agents with Different                                             Multi-round simulation
                                                       Characteristics


Figure 2: The overall framework of Agent4FaceForgery. Our simulator consists of two core facets: LLM-empowered Generative
Agents and a Media Presentation Environment. Agent profiles are initialized using datasets characterizing real media. Agents,
enhanced with specialized memory and action modules tailored for media evaluation and authenticity assessment scenarios,
simulate a wide range of behaviors including viewing content, evaluating authenticity, flagging suspicious items, sharing media,
ignoring content, and potentially participating in discussion.

   agent’s forgeries i ∈ forgeriesk :                                                                              of operators:

                                            [                                                                                   Edit(x; pk , Mk ) = On (. . . O1 (x; θ1 ) . . . ; θn ),                                        (3)
                     Tkdiv =                               {methodi } .                       (1)                  where each operator Oi is chosen from a toolbox Oops (in-
                                     i∈forgeriesk                                                                  cluding methods like Flux Pro and Deepfake APIs), and its
                                                                                                                   parameters θi are determined by the agent’s profile pk and
 • Target Conformity (Tkconf ): An agent’s inclination to se-                                                      its memory Mk . The textual description Desc(·) can be ei-
   lect popular targets. For each forgery i, targeti is the tar-                                                   ther an accurate caption or an intentionally misleading state-
   geted identity. We define a popularity function Pop(·) as                                                       ment.
   the total number of times a target is manipulated in the
   entire dataset. The conformity is the average popularity                                                        Adaptive Rejection Sampling (ARS). The agents lever-
   of an agent’s chosen targets:                                                                                   age their cognitive architecture within an iterative algo-
                                                                                                                   rithm to synthesize and curate the final blueprints. To ensure
                      1          X                                                                                 the generated data is both diverse and challenging, we use
       Tkconf =                         Pop(targeti ). (2)
                |forgeriesk |                                                                                      an ARS mechanism as a quality control gate. A candidate
                                              i∈forgeriesk
                                                                                                                   blueprint (x′i , c′i ) is scored using a fused metric si :
These three metrics form the numerical vector vk . For the                                                                                        si = λ sLLM + (1 − λ) sdisc ,                                                (4)
                                                                                                                                                          i              i
qualitative component ck , we prompt GPT-4V to generate
a stylistic preference description by analyzing a sample of                                                        where sdisc
                                                                                                                           i     is the score from an external forgery detector,
L forgeries from a creator’s work, where L is a predefined                                                         sLLM
                                                                                                                    i    is  the  agent’s internal quality assessment based on
hyperparameter. Together, they form the agent’s complete                                                           its memory, and λ is a weighting hyperparameter.A sample
“forgery gene,” pk = (vk , ck ), which drives its decision-                                                        is accepted if its score si exceeds an adaptive threshold τ .
making.                                                                                                            To ensure the mechanism is logically sound and robust, the
                                                                                                                   threshold determination includes an initial warm-up phase.
Memory Module. To enable continuous refinement, the                                                                For the first Nw armup samples, we employ a fixed, lenient
memory module maintains two memory types: factual mem-                                                             threshold, τw armup, to build a diverse initial pool of ac-
ory for objective details of past edits, and evaluative memory                                                     cepted samples. After the warm-up phase, the threshold τ
for subjective assessments (e.g., seam visibility). Memories                                                       becomes fully data-driven and is periodically updated to the
are logged in structured JSON, containing not only oper-                                                           q-th quantile of the scores of all previously accepted sam-
ational data but also cognitive states like high-level plans.                                                      ples:
This supports three key operations: memory retrieval, writ-
ing, and an LLM-driven reflection process to analyze out-                                                                       τ = Quantile({sj | j ∈ Accepted Samples}, q),                                                  (5)
comes and guide future actions.                                                                                    where {sj } is the set of scores from all accepted samples and
Action Module. The Action Module translates intent into                                                            q ∈ [0, 1] is the single hyperparameter defining the rejection
                                                      (t)                                                          rate.
action. An agent’s action at time t, denoted Actionk , is a
pair (Edit(·), Desc(·)) consisting of a visual edit and a tex-                                                     Data Generation Pipeline. The generation process unfolds
tual description. The visual edit is a sequential application                                                      in five structured steps:
1. Multi-round Forgery. Given a set of real face images               a social media environment, thereby aligning with the realis-
   Xreal , the agent’s Action Module generates a candidate by         tic dynamics of the “social interaction–deepfake” interplay.
   first formulating and then executing a multi-step forgery          Socal Intent Simulation. Drawing inspiration from observ-
   plan. For each random selected image x ∈ Xreal , the               able behaviors on social media platforms, we introduce five
   agent constructs a sequence of operators (O1 , . . . , On )        distinct user roles, each powered by MLLMs. These roles
   by sampling from a comprehensive toolbox Oops . This               engage with forged images through a variety of actions, such
   toolbox is populated with diverse forgery instruments,             as viewing, commenting, sharing, and labeling, thereby em-
   categorized into:                                                  ulating a wide range of user interactions:
   • Identity Manipulation: Face-swapping methods                      • Watcher: Frequently designates content as “liked” or
     (e.g., based on DeepFaceLab, FaceSwap).                             “interesting” but rarely investigates its authenticity.
   • Attribute & Expression Editing: GAN-based editors                 • Explorer: Compares multiple posts related to the same
     for expressions or attributes like age and gender (e.g.,            event, enhancing the probability of detecting forgery ar-
     StarGAN, AttGAN).                                                   tifacts through comparative analysis.
   • Style-Based Synthesis: GAN-inversion techniques                   • Critic: Emphasizes quality and credibility, often high-
     that allow for fine-grained stylistic edits (e.g., SBI).            lighting suspicious forgeries in comments or reports.
   The selection of this operator chain is a probabilistic             • Chatter: Susceptible to misinformation due to social in-
   process, directly governed by the agent’s Profile Mod-                fluences, yet capable of correction through group discus-
   ule (pk ). The agent maintains a probability distribution             sions.
   over the tools in Oops , where the likelihood of choos-             • Poster: Reposts or re-edits content, amplifying the prop-
   ing a specific tool is weighted by its stylistic taste (ck )          agation of forged images across platforms.
   and methodological diversity trait (Tkdiv ). For instance,
   an agent profiled for high-realism forgeries might have a             Collectively, these roles simulate a rich and varied set of
   higher probability of first selecting a face-swap operator,        user interactions, yielding textual responses that closely re-
   and then selecting a blending operator as a second step.           semble those observed in authentic social media contexts.
   The execution of this plan, x′i = On (. . . O1 (x) . . . ), pro-   Hard Negative Generation : To amplify the complexity
   duces the final forged image. Following this, a textual            of text-image inconsistencies, we introduce the Gemini Au-
   corresponding forgery description c′i = Desc(·) is gen-            ditor, a specialized role engineered to produce intention-
   erated, and the agent assigns the image-text consistency           ally deceptive statements. For example, the Gemini audi-
   label δi′ ∈ {0, 1} based on its strategic intent.                  tor might designate an evidently spliced image as “100%
                                                                      authentic” or manipulate attributes such as gender or iden-
2. Scoring and Filtering. Each candidate is evaluated by
                                                                      tity, thereby injecting ambiguity into the deepfake scenario.
   two models pre-trained on the FF++ dataset. Xcep-
                                                                      These adversarial assertions facilitate the creation of robust
   tion and LLaVA, computes the agent’s internal qual-
                                                                      negative samples by inducing pronounced conflicts between
   ity and consistency score sLLM i     = fagent (x′i , c′i , Mk ).
                                                                      text and image content, compelling detection models to con-
   These scores are fused into a single metric si .Determine
                                                                      front deceptive pairings and bolstering their resilience.
   whether they are challenge samples based on the confi-
   dence score and the probability value of the LLaVA text            Social Environment Labeling. The interactions among the
   output.                                                            Watcher, Explorer, Critic, Chatter, Poster, and Gemini roles
                                                                      generate a diverse collection of comments, labels, and edits
3. Memory Update. Both successful and rejected forgery
                                                                      for each forged image. When integrated with ground-truth
   attempts are logged into the Memory Module. After a
                                                                      labels (e.g., real or fake), these interactions enable the au-
   fixed number of iterations, the agent initiates a reflec-
                                                                      tomated construction of positive and negative sample pairs
   tion phase, analyzing past outcomes to refine its forgery
                                                                      based on the consistency between text and image content.
   techniques, e.g., blending or style adjustments, for sub-
                                                                      Negative samples arise in cases such as a forged image
   sequent rounds.
                                                                      (y = 1) paired with a claim asserting it is “perfectly real,” or
4. Output Data. The retained forged samples, denoted                  a real image (y = 0) accompanied by a declaration of “ob-
   as {(x′i , c′i , yi = 1, δi′ )}, are combined with the             vious forgery.” Conversely, positive samples emerge when
   real face samples from Xreal , which are formatted as              the text accurately reflects the image’s authenticity or when
   {(xj , cj , yj = 0, δj = 1)}, to form the final multimodal         social feedback, such as a Critic identifying artifacts, recti-
   dataset D.                                                         fies an initial mislabeling.We formalize this labeling process
                                                                      with the function δ(x′ , c′ ):
Phase 2: Social Interaction Trajectory Collection
                                                                                                    ′
                                                                              
Positive-Negative Sample Construction. Traditional ap-                        1, if y = 1 and c claims “perfectly real”,
proaches to data construction for forgery detection fre-                        1, if y = 0 and c′ claims “obvious forgery”, (6)
quently depend on binary “real” or “fake” labels assigned at                  
                                                                                0, otherwise,
the image level, often disregarding the pivotal role of social
discourse and user reactions in the dissemination of deep-            where δ = 1 denotes a negative sample indicative of a text–
fakes. To address this shortcoming, we propose an innova-             image mismatch, and δ = 0 signifies alignment or a cor-
tive framework that simulates multi-user interactions within          rected positive sample. This methodology capitalizes on so-
Table 1: Frame-level cross-database evaluation from FF++(HQ) to DFD, DFDC-P, Wild Deepfake, and Celeb-DF in terms of
AUC (%) and EER (%). The FF++ results represent intra-domain performance, while others represent generalization to unseen
domains. The best results are indicated in bold, and the second-best results are underlined.
                                                          FF++             DFD           DFDC-P        Wild Deepfake    Celeb-DF
                    Method
                                                       AUC     EER     AUC     EER     AUC     EER     AUC     EER     AUC     EER
                    Xception (Chollet 2017)            99.09   3.77    87.86   21.04   69.80   35.41   66.17   40.14   65.27   38.77
                    EN-b4 (Tan and Le 2019b)           99.22   3.36    87.37   21.99   70.12   34.54   61.04   45.34   68.52   35.61
                    Face X-ray (Tan and Le 2019b)      87.40     -     85.60     -     70.00     -       -       -     74.20     -
                    F3-Net (Qian et al. 2020a)         98.10   3.58    86.10   26.17   72.88   33.38   67.71   40.17   71.21   34.03
                    MAT (Nguyen et al. 2019)           99.27   3.35    87.58   21.73   67.34   38.31   70.15   36.53   70.65   35.83
                    GFF (Luo et al. 2021)              98.36   3.85    85.51   25.64   71.58   34.77   66.51   41.52   75.31   32.48
                    LTW (Sun et al. 2021)              99.17   3.32    88.56   20.57   74.58   33.81   67.12   39.22   77.14   29.34
                    LRL (Chen et al. 2021)             99.46   3.01    89.24   20.32   76.53   32.41   68.76   37.50   78.26   29.67
                    DCL (Sun et al. 2022)              99.30   3.26    91.66   16.63   76.71   31.97   71.14   36.17   82.30   26.53
                    PCL+I2G (Zhao et al. 2021)         99.11     -       -       -       -       -       -       -     81.80     -
                    SBI (Shiohara and Yamasaki 2022)   88.33   20.47   88.13   17.25   76.53   30.22   68.22   38.11   80.76   26.97
                    UIA-ViT (Zhuang et al. 2022)         -       -     94.68     -     75.80     -       -       -     82.41     -
                    RECCE (Cao et al. 2022b)           99.32   3.38    89.91   19.95   75.88   32.41   67.93   39.82   70.50   35.34
                    UCF (Yan et al. 2023b)             97.05     -     80.74     -     75.94     -       -       -     75.27     -
                    FFTG (Sun et al. 2025)             99.23   3.12    94.79   15.31   84.74   23.43   83.55   24.40   84.80   22.73
                    Ours                               99.50   2.97    93.25   13.04   88.10   19.19   86.50   21.87   87.10   20.12



cial interactions to produce nuanced, context-sensitive labels                   algorithms using the DF40 protocol. As shown in Table 2,
that mirror the intricacies of real-world scenarios.                             our model achieved an average AUC of 93.9% when tested
                                                                                 against six advanced forgery techniques like uniface, e4s,
                      Experiments                                                and simswap, significantly outperforming all existing SOTA
Experimental Settings                                                            methods. This exceptional robustness further demonstrates
Datasets. Following standard practice (Qian et al. 2020b;                        the value of our data generation framework. Through the
Yan et al. 2024a; Cao et al. 2022a), we built our model based                    ARS mechanism that filters for high-difficulty samples and
on FF++ (Rossler et al. 2019a). We evaluate performance                          the diverse agent Profiles, our framework generates training
on several benchmarks, including Celeb-DF (V2) (Li et al.                        data that covers a broader spectrum of forgery traces. This
2020), DFDC (Dolhansky et al. 2020), WildDeepfake (Zi                            process enables the detector to learn more essential and uni-
et al. 2020), DFD (Dolhansky et al. 2020), and DFDC-                             versal forgery features, rather than simply memorizing the
P (Dolhansky et al. 2019). Robustness is further assessed                        patterns of a few specific known forgery types.
using the DF40 protocol (Yan et al. 2024a; vlf 2025).                            Ablation Study
Implementation Details. We use LLava (Liu et al. 2024),
as the backbone model, and RetinaFace (Deng et al. 2020)                         Effectiveness of Agent-Generated Annotations. A core
to detect facial areas and scaled the face image to 224 × 224                    claim of our work is that simulating the forgery lifecy-
with a patch size of 16. We trained the model using the                          cle yields higher-quality multimodal annotations. We vali-
Adam optimizer with the learning rate set to 3e-6. The frame                     dated this through a multi-faceted comparison of data from
setting is consistent with common practices in (Cao et al.                       Agent4FaceForgery against human annotations (DD-VQA)
2022a; Qian et al. 2020b; Yan et al. 2023b). In our experi-                      and direct MLLM annotations (GPT-4o). As shown in Ta-
ments, we generated approximately 25k image-text pairs.                          ble 3, our approach excels on multiple fronts. First, in
                                                                                 terms of annotation quality, our data achieved a Precision
Comparison with State-of-the-Art Methods                                         of 94.41% and an F1-score of 69.06%, far surpassing other
Cross-Dataset Generalization. We first evaluated the de-                         methods. This demonstrates that our agent simulation (espe-
tector’s ability to generalize to completely unseen datasets.                    cially the ‘Memory‘ and ‘PNS‘ modules) generates text that
As shown in Table 1, all models were trained on FF++ (HQ)                        is better aligned with visual evidence and less prone to hallu-
and tested on datasets including DFD, DFDC-P, WildDeep-                          cination. Second, on downstream tasks, models trained with
fake, and Celeb-DF. Our model achieved top-tier or second-                       our data performed best, whether training a standard CLIP
best performance across all cross-dataset scenarios. For in-                     model (achieving an AVG-AUC of 91.23%) or fine-tuning
stance, our model reached an AUC of 87.10% on highly                             an MLLM (LLaVA), which reached an accuracy of 77.98%
challenging Celeb-DF, and it achieved an AUC of 86.50%                           on Celeb-DF. These combined results confirm that our sim-
on WildDeepfake. This superior generalization performance                        ulation process produces superior multimodal training data,
stems from the higher ecological validity of our simulated                       leading to tangible improvements in detector performance,
data. By modeling diverse human intents through the Profile                      generalization, and interpretability.
module and complex social interactions via the PNS mod-                          Sequential Training with A4FF Data. Agent4FaceForgery
ule, our data better captures the fundamental characteristics                    is designed as a data generation and augmentation frame-
of real-world forgeries, allowing the model to generalize be-                    work. Our standard training strategy is sequential: pre-
yond overfitting to specific dataset artifacts.                                  training a model on a base dataset (FF++) and then fine-
Robustness to Diverse Manipulations. Next, we assessed                           tuning it with our generated data to enhance performance.
the model’s robustness against a variety of unseen forgery                       The effectiveness of this strategy is clearly demonstrated
Table 2: Assessing detector robustness to diverse manipulation algorithms within the FF++ dataset. We report frame-level AUC
(%) against six techniques specified in DF40 (Yan et al. 2024b).
               Method                                                   Venue           uniface    e4s      facedancer         fsgan      inswap           simswap        Avg.
               RECCE (Cao et al. 2022b)                             CVPR 2022            84.2      65.2         78.3           88.4         79.5            73.0          78.1
               SBI (Shiohara and Yamasaki 2022)                     CVPR 2022            64.4      69.0         44.7           87.9         63.3            56.8          64.4
               CORE (Ni et al. 2022)                               CVPRW 2022            81.7      63.4         71.7           91.1         79.4            69.3          76.1
               IID (Huang et al. 2023)                              CVPR 2023            79.5      71.0         79.0           86.4         74.4            64.0          75.7
               UCF (Yan et al. 2023b)                               ICCV 2023            78.7      69.2         80.0           88.1         76.8            64.9          76.3
               LSDA (Yan et al. 2023a)                              CVPR 2024            85.4      68.4         75.9           83.2         81.0            72.7          77.8
               CDFA (Lin et al. 2024)                               ECCV 2024            76.5      67.4         75.4           84.8         72.0            76.1          75.4
               ProgressiveDet (Cheng et al. 2024)                  NeurIPS 2024          84.5      71.0         73.6           86.5         78.8            77.8          78.7
               Ours                                                        -             96.3      92.4         92.9           94.8         92.4            94.6          93.9
Table 3: Comparison of different annotation approaches. We report precision, recall and F1-score for annotation quality evalua-
tion, AUC (%) and EER for CLIP-based forgery detection and ACC (%) and explanation quality (Precision/Recall) for MLLMs
evaluation on FF++ and Celeb-DF (CDF) datasets.
                                                Annotation Evaluation                   CLIP Evaluation                            MLLM Evaluation
                Method
                                              Precision       Recall     F1         AVG-AUC       AVG-EER       FF++-ACC           CDF-ACC          Precision         Recall
                w/o Text                          -             -         -           84.36         20.64         50.13             65.30             10.41            8.10
                DD-VQA (Human)                  62.46         51.52     52.06         88.25         18.04         73.54             65.60             62.94           53.62
                GPT-4o-mini                     61.27         44.00     47.18         87.56         19.21         94.84             73.98             58.26           41.85
                Ours                            94.41         60.04     69.06         91.23         16.35         96.35             77.98             89.02           59.02

Table 4: Ablation on the sequential training strategy. Mod-                                        Table 6: Ablation study regarding the effectiveness of each
els are first pre-trained on a base dataset and then fine-tuned                                    proposed module via cross-dataset evaluation. The results
with data generated by Agent4FaceForgery (A4FF). The                                               show an incremental benefit in each module.
results demonstrate significant performance improvements                                            Method
                                                                                                                     Modules                 Metrics (AUC(%) | AP(%) | EER(%))
across multiple backbone models, confirming the effective-                                                      FT     ARS     PNS          CDF                   DFD                 DFDC

ness of our generated data for augmentation.                                                        LLaVA       -      -       -      51.8 | 68.0 | 49.3    69.3 | 94.9 | 37.2   57.4 | 60.4 | 45.3
                                                                                                    Only FT     ✓      -       -      83.2 | 90.8 | 24.8    91.5 | 98.6 | 16.3   82.5 | 90.5 | 22.1
             Model                A4FF Data     AUC(%) ↑        EER(%) ↓                           Only ARS     -      ✓       -      88.0 | 93.7 | 21.0    92.1 | 98.8 | 16.8   84.2 | 86.5 | 22.3
                                                                                                   Only PNS     -      -       ✓      91.0 | 95.0 | 17.5    93.8 | 99.0 | 16.2   85.5 | 87.2 | 20.5
                                      ×               81.5          25.3
             Phi-3.5                                                                                 Ours       ✓      ✓       ✓      92.2 | 95.6 | 16.8    94.9 | 99.2 | 15.7   86.7 | 88.0 | 19.5
                                      ✓               90.4          19.0
                                      ×               82.7          26.1
             Qwen-VL 2.5                                                                           Table 7: Ablation on the number of agents in the social sim-
                                      ✓               91.7          18.4
                                      ×               83.2          24.8                           ulation. Performance is evaluated on the DFD and Celeb-DF
             LLaVA
                                      ✓               92.2          16.8                           datasets. The results show diminishing returns as the number
                                                                                                   of agents increases, with 12 agents providing only marginal
Table 5: Results of different backbone models with and with-
                                                                                                   gains over 6, which justifies our agent count configuration
out Agent4FaceForgery on different datasets.
                                                                                                   and balances performance with computational cost.
                                                             WDF           DFDC-P
    Backbone                          CLIP    Agent                                                                                       DFD                      Celeb-DF
                                                        AUC     EER     AUC     EER                 Configuration                                                                       Time(h)
                                                                                                                               AUC(%) ↑      EER(%) ↓       AUC(%) ↑      EER(%) ↓
                                       ×        ×       66.17   40.14   69.80   35.41
    Xception (Rossler et al. 2019b)                                                                 Baseline (No Social Sim)       88.1         20.0           74.5          31.0          3.8
                                       ×        ✓       73.14   35.12   77.64   28.09
                                                                                                    2 Agents                       89.8         18.1           77.9          27.8          4.5
                                       ×        ×       61.04   45.34   70.12   34.54               4 Agents                       91.3         16.5           81.5          24.6          5.3
    EN-B4 (Tan and Le 2019a)
                                       ×        ✓       73.78   34.57   80.04   27.62
                                                                                                    6 Agents                       92.8         14.9           85.3          22.0          6.1
                                       ×        ×       65.39   38.11   68.03   36.06               12 Agents                      93.0         14.5           85.8          21.6          7.5
    ViT-L (Radford et al. 2021)        ×        ✓       76.12   30.07   77.54   28.71
                                       ✓        ✓       79.32   26.51   79.44   28.79
                                       ×        ×       69.92   36.20   71.33   33.76              The results in Table 5 show that all architectures exhibited
    ViT-B (Radford et al. 2021)        ×        ✓       73.55   30.12   81.79   26.31              significant performance gains when trained with data from
                                       ✓        ✓       86.50   21.87   88.10   19.19
                                                                                                   Agent4FaceForgery compared to using only standard FF++
in Table 4. After augmentation with Agent4FaceForgery                                              data. It is particularly noteworthy that combining CLIP pre-
(A4FF) data, the performance of various models, includ-                                            training with our agent-generated data on a ViT-B backbone
ing Phi-3.5, Qwen-VL 2.5, and LLaVA, improved signif-                                              yielded an AUC of 86.50% on WDF and 88.10% on DFDC-
icantly. For instance, the LLaVA model’s AUC improved                                              P. This powerful synergy shows that our framework pro-
from 83.2% to 92.2%, and its EER dropped from 24.8% to                                             vides effective ecological signals for a wide range of models,
16.8%. This strongly validates the value of our framework                                          greatly enhancing their generalization capabilities.
as a powerful data augmentation tool.                                                              Effectiveness of Core Modules. We further conducted an
Impact on Different Backbone Architectures. To demon-                                              ablation study to isolate the contribution of our framework’s
strate the universal applicability of our generated data, we                                       core components: Forgery Tree simulation (FT), ARS, and
evaluated its effectiveness across four different backbone ar-                                     PNS. As detailed in Table 6, we started with a baseline
chitectures: Xception, EfficientNet-B4, ViT-B, and ViT-L.                                          LLaVA model trained only on FF++ (achieving just 51.8%
                                       (a) Arms Race                                              (b) Social Environment Impact
                         80
                                                       Agent Profile
                                                                                           95
                                                                                                                                  Evaluation Metric
                                                                                                                                                         Fake Image




Fixed Detector AUC (%)
                         75                             Balanced (Ours)                                                              Inconsist. Acc.
                                                        Stealthy                           90                                        Overall CDF Acc.
                         70
                                                        Visual                                                                                                         USER:You are a specialized forgery detection

                                                                            Accuracy (%)
                         65                                                                85
                         60                                                                                                                                           expert.Has this image been forged with? Why?
                         55                                                                80

                         50
                         45
                                                                                           75
                                                                                                                                                          O3 Pro:With the limited information available in this pixel
                         40                                                                70                                                              PNG, I do not see any clear, objective indicators of
                              T0            T-mid                 T-final                       Default    HighCritic   HighChatter     AggroAudit
                                   Simulation Time Point                                            Social Environment Configuration                      tampering.The image looks like a small, down‑scaled crop
       Figure 3: Left (a): Comparison of forgery evasion capabil-                                                                                         from an ordinary photograph rather than a synthetic
       ity (AUC, lower is better) evolution over simulation time                                                                                          composite or “deepfake.”...
       for Agents with different profiles. Right (b): Comparison of                                                                                       Fine-Tuned LLaVa:Based on a forensic analysis of the
       MLLM detection accuracy (Inconsistency vs. Overall) when
                                                                                                                                                          image, there are no obvious indicators of forgery or digital
       trained on data generated under different Social Environ-
       ment configurations.                                                                                                                                manipulation. The photograph appears to be real....


       AUC on CDF). Adding data from the ‘FT‘ module alone                                                                                               Agent4FaceForgery:The image shows an East Asian man
       boosts performance to 83.2%, validating the benefit of sim-                                                                                       with dark hair, light-to-medium skin, and dark eyes. Several
       ulating diverse forgery intents. The ARS and PNS modules                                                                                           artifacts suggest this face have been forged.The skin
       also provided substantial gains individually, with the PNS                                                                                        texture is unnaturally uniform and lacks the subtle pores....
       module being particularly impactful (reaching 91.0% AUC),                                                                                          Figure 4: Qualitative examples in challenge scenarios.
       highlighting the importance of simulating social context and
       generating challenging text-image consistency samples. The                                                                                                                                         Previous
       full system, with all modules working in concert, achieved                                                                                                                                        Low Quality
       the best performance (92.2%AUC).
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ours More
       Impact of Agent Number in Social Simulation. To justify                                                                                                                                           Challenge
       our choice of agent count for the social simulation, we ex-
       perimented with varying numbers of agents. Table 7 shows                                                                                         Figure 5: Qualitative examples of Agent-Generated Images.
       a clear trend of diminishing marginal returns. While perfor-
       mance on DFD and Celeb-DF consistently improves as the
                                                                                                                                                        against inconsistencies (≈87.1% vs. ≈85.3% baseline).
       number of agents increases from 2 to 6, the gain from 6
                                                                                                                                                        These results underscore the importance of social simula-
       to 12 agents is minimal. For instance, the Celeb-DF AUC
                                                                                                                                                        tion and context-aware PNS construction. By generating
       increases from 85.3% to only 85.8%, at a significant addi-
                                                                                                                                                        ecologically valid training data reflecting diverse social
       tional time cost. Therefore, we selected 6 agents as our de-
                                                                                                                                                        interactions and potential adversarial text, our framework
       fault configuration, striking a reasonable balance between
                                                                                                                                                        demonstrably improves detector robustness to complex
       performance and computational efficiency.
                                                                                                                                                        multimodal manipulations.
       Agent Profile Modulates Forgery Evolution. We investi-                                                                                           Qualitative Analysis. As shown in Fig. 4 showcases a
       gate the impact of agent profiles on simulated forgery evolu-                                                                                    qualitative analysis where our Agent4FaceForgery demon-
       tion against a fixed detector in Fig. 3(a). Measuring evasion                                                                                    strates superior forgery detection over other models. Pre-
       capability via AUC (lower is better), all profiles (Balanced,                                                                                    sented with a forged image, baseline models O3 Pro and
       Stealthy, Visual) demonstrate adaptive generation, progres-                                                                                      a fine-tuned LLaVA fail to identify any manipulation, stat-
       sively reducing detectability from T0 to T-final, validating                                                                                     ing a lack of ”clear, objective indicators” and deeming the
       the efficacy of the Memory/Reflection and ARS modules.                                                                                           photograph ”to be real.” Conversely, Agent4FaceForgery ac-
       Crucially, the Stealthy profile achieves superior evasion,                                                                                       curately flags the image as forged, offering a succinct ex-
       reaching the lowest final AUC (≈48.5%), while the ’Visual’                                                                                       planation: “The skin texture is unnaturally uniform...”. This
       profile lags. This confirms that the agent’s profile, represent-                                                                                 highlights Agent4FaceForgery’s enhanced ability to discern
       ing forgery intent, significantly modulates the adaptive gen-                                                                                    subtle forgery cues missed by other approaches. In addition,
       eration process within the simulated arms race.                                                                                                  Fig. 5 provides qualitative examples of the high-fidelity and
       Social Simulation Enhances Detector Robustness.                                                                                                  stylistically diverse portraits generated by our framework.
       Fig. 3(b) evaluates how the simulated social environ-
       ment during data generation impacts the robustness of a                                                                                                                  Conclusion
       trained MLLM detector. We assess MLLM accuracy on
       text-image inconsistency detection (Inconsist. Acc.) and                                                                                         We introduce Agent4FaceForgery, a multi-agent framework
       overall generalization (Overall CDF Acc.). Training with                                                                                         that simulates human behavior to generate realistic multi-
       data from the ’HighCritic’ environment yields the most                                                                                           modal data for face forgery detection. Refined via adaptive
       robust detector (≈88.7% Inconsist. Acc., ≈78.6% CDF                                                                                              rejection sampling, our synthesized data significantly boosts
       Acc.), demonstrating the value of incorporating simulated                                                                                        detector performance and generalization across challenging
       critical feedback. Conversely, the HighChatter environment                                                                                       cross-domain benchmarks. The framework’s extensible de-
       degrades performance. The AggroAudit setting, featuring                                                                                          sign offers insights into forgery tactics and supports future
       adversarial text generation, notably enhances robustness                                                                                         work in self-supervised learning to counter evolving threats.
                        References                                Huang, Z.; Xia, B.; Lin, Z.; Mou, Z.; and Yang, W. 2024b.
2025. Towards General Visual-Linguistic Face Forgery De-          FFAA: Multimodal Large Language Model based Explain-
tection. In CVPR.                                                 able Open-World Face Forgery Analysis Assistant. arXiv
                                                                  preprint arXiv:2408.10072.
Achiam, J.; Adler, S.; Agarwal, S.; Ahmad, L.; Akkaya, I.;
                                                                  Khan, S. A.; and Dang-Nguyen, D.-T. 2024. CLIPping the
Aleman, F. L.; Almeida, D.; Altenschmidt, J.; Altman, S.;
                                                                  Deception: Adapting Vision-Language Models for Univer-
Anadkat, S.; et al. 2023. GPT-4 technical report. arXiv
                                                                  sal Deepfake Detection. In Proceedings of the 2024 Inter-
preprint arXiv:2303.08774.
                                                                  national Conference on Multimedia Retrieval.
Cao, J.; Ma, C.; Yao, T.; Chen, S.; Ding, S.; and Yang,
                                                                  Li, T.; Tian, Y.; Li, H.; Deng, M.; and He, K. 2024. Au-
X. 2022a. End-to-End Reconstruction-Classification Learn-
                                                                  toregressive image generation without vector quantization.
ing for Face Forgery Detection. In Proceedings of the
                                                                  Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
                                                                  56424–56445.
Recognition, 4113–4122.
                                                                  Li, Y.; Chang, M.-C.; and Lyu, S. 2018. In ictu oculi: Ex-
Cao, J.; Ma, C.; Yao, T.; Chen, S.; Ding, S.; and Yang,           posing ai created fake videos by detecting eye blinking. In
X. 2022b. End-to-End Reconstruction-Classification Learn-         IEEE International workshop on information forensics and
ing for Face Forgery Detection. In Proceedings of the             security (WIFS). Ieee.
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, 4113–4122.                                           Li, Y.; Yang, X.; Sun, P.; Qi, H.; and Lyu, S. 2020. Celeb-
                                                                  df: A large-scale challenging dataset for deepfake forensics.
Chen, S.; Yao, T.; Chen, Y.; Ding, S.; Li, J.; and Ji, R. 2021.   In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer
Local relation learning for face forgery detection. In Pro-       vision and pattern recognition, 3207–3216.
ceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence.
                                                                  Lin, Y.; Song, W.; Li, B.; Li, Y.; Ni, J.; Chen, H.; and Li,
Cheng, J.; Yan, Z.; Zhang, Y.; Luo, Y.; Wang, Z.; and Li,         Q. 2024. Fake It till You Make It: Curricular Dynamic
C. 2024. Can We Leave Deepfake Data Behind in Training            Forgery Augmentations towards General Deepfake Detec-
Deepfake Detector? arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.17052.               tion. arXiv:2409.14444.
Chollet, F. 2017. Xception: Deep learning with depthwise          Liu, H.; Li, C.; Wu, Q.; and Lee, Y. J. 2024. Visual in-
separable convolutions. In Proceedings of the IEEE Con-           struction tuning. Advances in neural information processing
ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 1251–         systems, 36.
1258.
                                                                  Liu, H.; Li, X.; Zhou, W.; Chen, Y.; He, Y.; Xue, H.; Zhang,
Deng, J.; Guo, J.; Ververas, E.; Kotsia, I.; and Zafeiriou, S.    W.; and Yu, N. 2021. Spatial-Phase Shallow Learning: Re-
2020. Retinaface: Single-shot multi-level face localisation       thinking Face Forgery Detection in Frequency Domain. In
in the wild. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on         Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vi-
computer vision and pattern recognition, 5203–5212.               sion and Pattern Recognition (CVPR).
Dolhansky, B.; Bitton, J.; Pflaum, B.; Lu, J.; Howes, R.;         Luo, Y.; Zhang, Y.; Yan, J.; and Liu, W. 2021. Generalizing
Wang, M.; and Ferrer, C. C. 2020. The deepfake detection          Face Forgery Detection with High-frequency Features. In
challenge (dfdc) dataset. arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.07397.        CVPR, 16317–16326.
Dolhansky, B.; Howes, R.; Pflaum, B.; Baram, N.; and Fer-         Nguyen, H. H.; Fang, F.; Yamagishi, J.; and Echizen, I. 2019.
rer, C. 2019. The deepfake detection challenge (dfdc) pre-        Multi-task learning for detecting and segmenting manipu-
view dataset. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.08854.                    lated facial images and videos. In 2019 IEEE 10th Interna-
He, K.; Zhang, X.; Ren, S.; and Sun, J. 2016. Deep resid-         tional Conference on Biometrics Theory, Applications and
ual learning for image recognition. In Proceedings of the         Systems (BTAS), 1–8. IEEE.
IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recogni-           Ni, Y.; Meng, D.; Yu, C.; Quan, C.; Ren, D.; and Zhao, Y.
tion, 770–778.                                                    2022. CORE: Consistent Representation Learning for Face
Hong, S.; Zheng, X.; Chen, J.; Cheng, Y.; Zhang, C.; Wang,        Forgery Detection. arXiv:2206.02749.
Z.; Yau, S. K. S.; Lin, Z.; Zhou, L.; Ran, C.; et al. 2023.       Park, J. S.; O’Brien, J. C.; Cai, C. J.; Morris, M. R.;
Metagpt: Meta programming for multi-agent collaborative           Liang, P.; and Bernstein, M. S. 2023. Generative agents:
framework. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.00352.                       Interactive simulacra of human behavior. arXiv preprint
Huang, B.; Wang, Z.; Yang, J.; Ai, J.; Zou, Q.; Wang, Q.;         arXiv:2304.03442.
and Ye, D. 2023. Implicit Identity Driven Deepfake Face           Qian, Y.; Yin, G.; Sheng, L.; Chen, Z.; and Shao, J. 2020a.
Swapping Detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Con-           Thinking in frequency: Face forgery detection by mining
ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 4490–         frequency-aware clues. In European Conference on Com-
4499.                                                             puter Vision, 86–103. Springer.
Huang, Z.; Hu, J.; Li, X.; He, Y.; Zhao, X.; Peng, B.; Wu, B.;    Qian, Y.; Yin, G.; Sheng, L.; Chen, Z.; and Shao, J. 2020b.
Huang, X.; and Cheng, G. 2024a. SIDA: Social Media Im-            Thinking in frequency: Face forgery detection by mining
age Deepfake Detection, Localization and Explanation with         frequency-aware clues. In European conference on com-
Large Multimodal Model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.04292.          puter vision, 86–103. Springer.
Radford, A.; Kim, J. W.; Hallacy, C.; Ramesh, A.; Goh, G.;         Yan, Z.; Luo, Y.; Lyu, S.; Liu, Q.; and Wu, B. 2023a. Tran-
Agarwal, S.; Sastry, G.; Askell, A.; Mishkin, P.; Clark, J.;       scending forgery specificity with latent space augmenta-
Krueger, G.; and Sutskever, I. 2021. Learning Transfer-            tion for generalizable deepfake detection. arXiv preprint
able Visual Models From Natural Language Supervision.              arXiv:2311.11278.
arXiv:2103.00020.                                                  Yan, Z.; Luo, Y.; Lyu, S.; Liu, Q.; and Wu, B. 2024a. Tran-
Rombach, R.; Blattmann, A.; Lorenz, D.; Esser, P.; and Om-         scending Forgery Specificity with Latent Space Augmenta-
mer, B. 2022. High-Resolution Image Synthesis With Latent          tion for Generalizable Deepfake Detection. In Proceedings
Diffusion Models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Confer-           of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pat-
ence on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR).            tern Recognition (CVPR).
Rossler, A.; Cozzolino, D.; Verdoliva, L.; Riess, C.; Thies,       Yan, Z.; Yao, T.; Chen, S.; Zhao, Y.; Fu, X.; Zhu, J.; Luo,
J.; and Niessner, M. 2019a. FaceForensics++: Learning to           D.; Yuan, L.; Wang, C.; Ding, S.; et al. 2024b. DF40: To-
Detect Manipulated Facial Images. In Proceedings of the            ward Next-Generation Deepfake Detection. arXiv preprint
IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision               arXiv:2406.13495.
(ICCV).                                                            Yan, Z.; Zhang, Y.; Fan, Y.; and Wu, B. 2023b. UCF: Un-
Rossler, A.; Cozzolino, D.; Verdoliva, L.; Riess, C.; Thies,       covering Common Features for Generalizable Deepfake De-
J.; and Nießner, M. 2019b. Faceforensics++: Learning to            tection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.13949.
detect manipulated facial images. In Proceedings of the            Yan, Z.; Zhang, Y.; Yuan, X.; Lyu, S.; and Wu, B. 2023c.
IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision, 1–           DeepfakeBench: A Comprehensive Benchmark of Deepfake
11.                                                                Detection. In Thirty-seventh Conference on Neural Infor-
                                                                   mation Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track
Shiohara, K.; and Yamasaki, T. 2022. Detecting Deepfakes           (NeurIPS).
with Self-Blended Images. In CVPR, 18720–18729.
                                                                   Yang, X.; Li, Y.; and Lyu, S. 2019. Exposing deep fakes
Sun, K.; Chen, S.; Yao, T.; Zhou, Z.; Ji, J.; Sun, X.; Lin, C.-    using inconsistent head poses. In ICASSP IEEE Interna-
W.; and Ji, R. 2025. Towards General Visual-Linguistic Face        tional Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Process-
Forgery Detection (V2). arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.20698.           ing (ICASSP). IEEE.
Sun, K.; Liu, H.; Ye, Q.; Liu, J.; Gao, Y.; Shao, L.; and Ji, R.   Yang, Y.; Achananuparp, P.; Huang, H.; Jiang, J.; and Lim,
2021. Domain General Face Forgery Detection by Learning            E.-P. 2024. Speaker Verification in Agent-generated Con-
to Weight. In AAAI, volume 35, 2638–2646.                          versations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.10150.
Sun, K.; Yao, T.; Chen, S.; Ding, S.; Ji, R.; et al. 2022. Dual    Zhang, A.; Chen, Y.; Sheng, L.; Wang, X.; and Chua, T.-S.
Contrastive Learning for General Face Forgery Detection. In        2024. On generative agents in recommendation. In Proceed-
AAAI.                                                              ings of the 47th international ACM SIGIR conference on
Tan, M.; and Le, Q. 2019a. Efficientnet: Rethinking model          research and development in Information Retrieval, 1807–
scaling for convolutional neural networks. In International        1817.
conference on machine learning. PMLR.                              Zhao, T.; Xu, X.; Xu, M.; Ding, H.; Xiong, Y.; and Xia, W.
                                                                   2021. Learning self-consistency for deepfake detection. In
Tan, M.; and Le, Q. V. 2019b. Efficientnet: Rethinking
                                                                   Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on
model scaling for convolutional neural networks. ICML.
                                                                   computer vision, 15023–15033.
Wang, H.; Zhang, A.; Duy Tai, N.; Sun, J.; Chua, T.-S.; et al.     Zhuang, W.; Chu, Q.; Tan, Z.; Liu, Q.; Yuan, H.; Miao,
2024a. ALI-Agent: Assessing LLMs’ Alignment with Hu-               C.; Luo, Z.; and Yu, N. 2022. UIA-ViT: Unsupervised
man Values via Agent-based Evaluation. Advances in Neu-            inconsistency-aware method based on vision transformer for
ral Information Processing Systems, 37: 99040–99088.               face forgery detection. In European Conference on Com-
Wang, J.; Wu, Z.; Ouyang, W.; Han, X.; Chen, J.; Jiang, Y.-        puter Vision, 391–407. Springer.
G.; and Li, S.-N. 2022. M2tr: Multi-modal multi-scale trans-       Zi, B.; Chang, M.; Chen, J.; Ma, X.; and Jiang, Y.-G. 2020.
formers for deepfake detection. In Proceedings of the 2022         Wilddeepfake: A challenging real-world dataset for deep-
international conference on multimedia retrieval, 615–623.         fake detection. In Proceedings of the 28th ACM interna-
Wang, T.; Liao, X.; Chow, K. P.; Lin, X.; and Wang, Y.             tional conference on multimedia, 2382–2390.
2024b. Deepfake Detection: A Comprehensive Survey from
the Reliability Perspective. ACM Comput. Surv., 57(3).
Wang, X.; Cai, Z.; Gao, D.; and Vasconcelos, N. 2019. To-
wards universal object detection by domain attention. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vi-
sion and pattern recognition, 7289–7298.
Wu, Q.; Bansal, G.; Zhang, J.; Wu, Y.; Zhang, S.; Zhu, E.;
Li, B.; Jiang, L.; Zhang, X.; and Wang, C. 2023. Autogen:
Enabling next-gen llm applications via multi-agent conver-
sation framework. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.08155, 3(4).
